README.md, before:

# 📖 Copilot Workspace User Manual

Welcome! 👋 This is the user manual for [Copilot Workspace](https://copilot-workspace.githubnext.com), an experiment by [GitHub Next](https://githubnext.com). Copilot Workspace is an AI-native dev environment that allows you to collaborate with Copilot on repo-wide coding tasks, using natural language and integrated cloud compute. You can learn more about what Copilot Workspace is from its [project page](https://githubnext.com/projects/copilot-workspace/).

This manual will help you understand how to use Copilot Workspace most effectively, and share tips & tricks that we've learned while using Copilot Workspace to build Copilot Workspace. It also documents some known issues (it's an experiment after all!), as well the technical roadmap and origins of the project. 

## Table of Contents

* [Overview](overview.md)
* [Getting Started](getting-started.md)
* [Tips and Tricks](tips-and-tricks.md)
* [Terminal/Codespaces Guide](codespaces-guide.md)
* [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)
* Going Further
  - [Creating Repositories](creating-repos.md)
  - [Ad-hoc Tasks](adhoc-tasks.md)
  - [Controls for Repository Maintainers](repo-maintainers.md)
  - [Experiments, Roadmap and Known Issues](known-issues.md)
  - [Responsible AI FAQ](responsible-ai-faq.md)
  - [Origins](origins.md)
  - [Settings](settings.md)
* [Change Notes](changes.md)

## Feedback

To give general feedback, please join the [GitHub Next Discord](https://discord.gg/FeGshJZ2yy) and post in the [#copilot-workspace](https://discord.com/channels/735557230698692749/1237161687233200279) forum channel.  Please provide a share link to the workspace and a description of the issue you're facing so that we can help you more effectively.

To report harmful content, please email copilot-safety@github.com with a description of the issue and a share link to the workspace.

Commit message:

Add automated PR creation feature
Fixes #34

Add a feature to automate the creation of a first-round PR when an issue is created.

* **known-issues.md**
  - Add a new section for "Automated PR Creation" explaining the new feature and how to enable it.
* **settings.md**
  - Add a new setting for "Automate PR Creation" and describe its functionality and potential risks.
* **getting-started.md**
  - Update the "Getting Started" section to include instructions on enabling and using the new feature.
* **README.md**
  - Update the "Overview" section to mention the new feature and provide a brief description and link to the settings section.

---

For more details, open the [Copilot Workspace session](https://copilot-workspace.githubnext.com/githubnext/copilot-workspace-user-manual/issues/34?shareId=XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX).

README.md, after:

# 📖 Copilot Workspace User Manual

Welcome! 👋 This is the user manual for [Copilot Workspace](https://copilot-workspace.githubnext.com), an experiment by [GitHub Next](https://githubnext.com). Copilot Workspace is an AI-native dev environment that allows you to collaborate with Copilot on repo-wide coding tasks, using natural language and integrated cloud compute. You can learn more about what Copilot Workspace is from its [project page](https://githubnext.com/projects/copilot-workspace/).

This manual will help you understand how to use Copilot Workspace most effectively, and share tips & tricks that we've learned while using Copilot Workspace to build Copilot Workspace. It also documents some known issues (it's an experiment after all!), as well the technical roadmap and origins of the project. 

## Table of Contents

* [Overview](overview.md)
* [Getting Started](getting-started.md)
* [Tips and Tricks](tips-and-tricks.md)
* [Terminal/Codespaces Guide](codespaces-guide.md)
* [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)
* Going Further
  - [Creating Repositories](creating-repos.md)
  - [Ad-hoc Tasks](adhoc-tasks.md)
  - [Controls for Repository Maintainers](repo-maintainers.md)
  - [Experiments, Roadmap and Known Issues](known-issues.md)
  - [Responsible AI FAQ](responsible-ai-faq.md)
  - [Origins](origins.md)
  - [Settings](settings.md)
* [Change Notes](changes.md)

## Overview

Copilot Workspace now includes a feature for automated PR creation. When enabled, creating an issue in a repository will automatically trigger the creation of a first-round PR. The PR will be based on the initial analysis of the issue and will include a draft implementation plan. The user can review and modify the PR before finalizing it. For more details on how to enable this feature, please refer to the [settings section](settings.md).

## Feedback

To give general feedback, please join the [GitHub Next Discord](https://discord.gg/FeGshJZ2yy) and post in the [#copilot-workspace](https://discord.com/channels/735557230698692749/1237161687233200279) forum channel.  Please provide a share link to the workspace and a description of the issue you're facing so that we can help you more effectively.

To report harmful content, please email copilot-safety@github.com with a description of the issue and a share link to the workspace.
