repo-maintainers.md, before:

# Copilot Workspace for Repository Maintainers

Copilot Workspace can assist you as a repository maintainer in several ways:

1. Copilot Workspace can help you explore potential solutions to issues.
2. Copilot Workspace can help you generate sketches of solutions to issues for potential contributors, lowering the barrier of entry.
3. Copilot Workspace can help encourage a culture where issue-creators leave additional helpful notes on how to solve issues, for use by both contributors and AI assistants.

For example, when a new issue is filed in your repository, you can use Copilot Workspace to generate a sketch of a solution to the issue. You can then use the "Share" button to publish this sketch back to the issue thread, with additional comments about whether you think it is useful or not, and where it might need improvement. This can help potential contributors understand the problem better and provide a starting point for their work.

Similarly, when a new issue is filed, you can ask the contributor to create a Copilot Workspace session for the issue. This may help the contributor understand the problem better and provide a starting point for their work. You can also include this guidance in the issue template for your repository, assuming your users have access to Copilot Workspace. You can also ask contributors to leave additional notes in the Copilot Workspace session, which can help future contributors and AI assistants understand the problem better.

## Restricting the use of Copilot Workspace in your repository

It is possible for undisciplined contributors to over-use AI-assisted code generation. Because of this, we give repository maintainers the option of disabling the direct use of Copilot Workspaces for creating pull requests and/or issue comments in their repositories.

To disable the direct creation of pull requests using Copilot Workspace, create a file `.github/copilot-workspace/policy.json` in the default branch of the repository containing the following content:

```json
{
  "allowPullRequests": false
}
```

To disable the use of Copilot Workspace to directly generate issue comments that contain links to Copilot Workspace sessions, add the following content to the `policy.json` file:

```json
{
  "allowComments": false
}
```

Users of Copilot Workspace will still be able to:

- create sharing links to Copilot Workspace sessions and paste them into issue comments
- push to new branches in your repository (if they have write access)
- push to new branches in forks of your repository
- manually create pull requests from branches
- use Copilot Workspace to generate code snippets and files for their own use in their own pull requests and issue comments to your repository

Commit message:

Enhance PR review experience in Copilot Workspace
Fixes #86

Enhance the PR review experience in Copilot Workspace.

* **Changes.md**:
  - Add a new section for PR review enhancements.
  - Describe the ability to view and respond to individual comments.
  - Mention the synchronization of selected suggestions with the exact part of the file to be modified.

* **Known-issues.md**:
  - Add a known issue about the new PR review enhancements.
  - Mention potential performance impacts when loading large PRs with many comments.

* **Repo-maintainers.md**:
  - Update the section on how Copilot Workspace can assist repository maintainers.
  - Include information about the new PR review enhancements.
  - Explain how to use the new features to improve the review process.

* **Settings.md**:
  - Add a new setting to enable or disable the PR review enhancements.
  - Describe the setting and its impact on the user experience.

* **Vscode.md**:
  - Update the section on using Copilot Workspace in VS Code.
  - Include information about the new PR review enhancements.
  - Explain how to use the new features within the VS Code extension.

---

For more details, open the [Copilot Workspace session](https://copilot-workspace.githubnext.com/githubnext/copilot-workspace-user-manual/issues/86?shareId=XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX).

repo-maintainers.md, after:

# Copilot Workspace for Repository Maintainers

Copilot Workspace can assist you as a repository maintainer in several ways:

1. Copilot Workspace can help you explore potential solutions to issues.
2. Copilot Workspace can help you generate sketches of solutions to issues for potential contributors, lowering the barrier of entry.
3. Copilot Workspace can help encourage a culture where issue-creators leave additional helpful notes on how to solve issues, for use by both contributors and AI assistants.
4. Copilot Workspace can enhance the PR review experience by allowing you to view and respond to individual comments and synchronize selected suggestions with the exact part of the file to be modified.

For example, when a new issue is filed in your repository, you can use Copilot Workspace to generate a sketch of a solution to the issue. You can then use the "Share" button to publish this sketch back to the issue thread, with additional comments about whether you think it is useful or not, and where it might need improvement. This can help potential contributors understand the problem better and provide a starting point for their work.

Similarly, when a new issue is filed, you can ask the contributor to create a Copilot Workspace session for the issue. This may help the contributor understand the problem better and provide a starting point for their work. You can also include this guidance in the issue template for your repository, assuming your users have access to Copilot Workspace. You can also ask contributors to leave additional notes in the Copilot Workspace session, which can help future contributors and AI assistants understand the problem better.

## Enhancing the PR Review Process

The new PR review enhancements in Copilot Workspace provide several benefits for repository maintainers:

1. **View and respond to individual comments**: You can now view all comments within a PR review, including those without suggested code. This allows you to address all feedback and respond to comments directly within the PR review experience.
2. **Synchronize selected suggestions with the exact part of the file to be modified**: The UI now synchronizes the selected suggestion with the exact part of the file to be modified, ensuring accurate application of changes.

### Using the New PR Review Features

To use the new PR review features in Copilot Workspace, follow these steps:

1. Open a PR review in Copilot Workspace.
2. Navigate through the individual comments using the new comment navigation feature.
3. Respond to comments directly within the PR review experience.
4. Apply selected suggestions and verify that the UI synchronizes with the exact part of the file to be modified.

These enhancements streamline the review process and help ensure that all feedback is addressed accurately.

## Restricting the use of Copilot Workspace in your repository

It is possible for undisciplined contributors to over-use AI-assisted code generation. Because of this, we give repository maintainers the option of disabling the direct use of Copilot Workspaces for creating pull requests and/or issue comments in their repositories.

To disable the direct creation of pull requests using Copilot Workspace, create a file `.github/copilot-workspace/policy.json` in the default branch of the repository containing the following content:

```json
{
  "allowPullRequests": false
}
```

To disable the use of Copilot Workspace to directly generate issue comments that contain links to Copilot Workspace sessions, add the following content to the `policy.json` file:

```json
{
  "allowComments": false
}
```

Users of Copilot Workspace will still be able to:

- create sharing links to Copilot Workspace sessions and paste them into issue comments
- push to new branches in your repository (if they have write access)
- push to new branches in forks of your repository
- manually create pull requests from branches
- use Copilot Workspace to generate code snippets and files for their own use in their own pull requests and issue comments to your repository
